Add initial intro to backlogged blog post (#3)
arbrown/wasd: content/posts/backlogged-pinball.md

+++
title =  "Backlogged Pinball"
tags = ["pinball", "gcp", "next"]
date = "2024-10-07"
+++

# Backlogged Pinball

Earlier this year, I built a pinball-based demo for [Cloud Next 2024](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next).  I'm preparing some posts about specific aspects of it, but I wanted to post a brief overview first.  Backlogged is a physical pinball machine that has custom software to connect it to Cloud
services.

{{< figure src="/images/backlogged-pinball/pinball_suit.jpeg" width="600px" title="A conference attendee playing the Backlogged pinball demo" >}}

## Demo overview

> Backlogged pinball was designed to demonstrate specific cloud products and

Reviewer: **Question:** Just double checking that you meant "cloud" (generic reference) — not "Cloud" (Google Cloud), right?

Author: Good point! I've updated references to 'Cloud' where appropriate.

benefits in a fun, interactive way.

{{< figure src="/images/backlogged-pinball/backlogged-arch.png" width="600px" title="The pinball machine sends pubsub events to the cloud which are processed by Cloud Run and displayed on an interactive web app. Users can deploy their own Cloud Run service to process events and send pubsub messages back to the machine." >}}

In its current iteration, it highlights:

> 1.  Cloud PubSub: Two-way PubSub communication with a novel source of events

Reviewer: Nitpick: (not a blocker) Consider updating PubSub instances to Pub/Sub.
```suggestion
1.  Cloud Pub/Sub: Two-way Pub/Sub communication with a novel source of events
```

Author: Done.

    (The pinball machine)

> 1.  Cloud Run / Cloud functions: Both serverless platforms process pinball

Reviewer 2: Cloud Run functions now.

Author: Done

    events in real-time using different subscription mechanics (push vs. pull).
1.  Cloud Run Deployments: Users can update a Cloud Run service in 20 seconds
    which has an immediate effect on the current pinball game
1.  Cloud Firestore: Firestore pushes all events to a live web-app. The round
    trip from:

    Pinball machine **->** PubSub **->** Cloud Functions **->** Firestore **->**
    Web App

    takes about 200 ms, and could probably be further optimized.

## The machine

{{< figure src="/images/backlogged-pinball/pinball_wide.jpeg" width="600px" title="The demo featured live-updating high scores and current game status" >}}

The actual physical pinball machine is a
[Multimorphic P3](https://www.multimorphic.com/p3-pinball-platform/). In short,
this is a modular, programmable pinball machine with 2 large HD displays built
in.

Multimorphic also distributes
[an SDK](https://www.multimorphic.com/p3-pinball-platform/3rd-party-developers/)
to facilitate creating new pinball games.

> Thus, Backlogged is an application that uses the Unity game engine and the

Reviewer 2: first time you mention Unity game engine so Thus feels jarring, made me question whether I missed something earlier.

Author: Good point!  I added an earlier note clarifying it, though I'd love to write more on this subject at some point.

Multimorphic SDK to handle interfacing with the hardware (including displays).

## What's next?
{{< figure src="/images/backlogged-pinball/pinball_interview.jpeg" width="600px" title="Drew showing off the backlogged demo" >}}

The pinball machine currently resides in a Google office in Salt Lake City.  Whenever I am able to, I plan on adding new features/functionality to the demo (with a major focus on cloud code).

> I am currently working on a game advisor that uses [llama3.1-70b](https://ollama.com/library/llama3.1:70b) to grade your game and recommend more optimal strategies. 

Reviewer 2: is this based on the game or on pinball itself? like does it give recommendations on how to be better at pinball? regardless this is fascinating and makes me want to see more :)

Author: It gives some generic pinball tips (pretty decent ones too) and it's getting better at giving game-specific advice.  Stay tuned for further updates closer to Kubecon!

{{< figure src="/images/backlogged-pinball/genkit.png" width="600px" title="A sample game analysis from the prototype" >}}

In the future, I'd love to add more features like:

*  Using AI to play the game and optimize for a high score
*  Connecting two machines to the cloud to demonstrate more interactive
    scenarios
    *   This scenario could include two machines in different locations to
        highlight network latency and resiliency
*  More interactive features beyond simple messages and emoji.

> Any ideas for new features?  I'd love to hear them!

Reviewer 2: how do folks respond to you? (not sure if there is a contact me somewhere)

Author: I don't have a good way yet... It's on my todo list. I don't want to expose my work (or really personal) email address, so I'm probably going to write some sort of feedback form that forwards emails to both.  And then document that as a blog post 😂

For now, it's just a treasure hunt for highly motivated readers to find my GitHub or LinkedIn accounts!

## The code

All backend code (web app, cloud functions, sample reaction services, etc...) is
in
[this GitHub repository](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/backlogged-pinball-backend/).

> The pinball game code is heavily dependent on the Multimorphic SDK and sample

Reviewer 2: This is super helpful to see this explicitly. great for sharing this.
